Henry Ford had one last idea. An idea
that was so significant, it still
benefits us to this day. The total
amount of man-hours to produce a single
car went from 450 hours to just 150
hours. But, there was at least one
downside to this new way of working. The
work had become so monotonous for the
workers that more and more people
started to quit. New workers were
constantly having to be hired and
trained into the role, which started to
hurt the overall efficiency of the
factory. Henry Ford saw this and decided
to do something that would be
unimaginable today.
He announced that Ford would raise the
daily salary for all workers from $2.34
to $5.
And shorten the work day from 9 hours to
8 hours.
More than 10,000 people turned up the
next day to apply for a job, and Ford
never had trouble losing workers again.
Ford had mastered the art of mass
production.
He recognized that the health of his
workers made a difference in the overall
quality and output of work.
Someone that was well-rested and
refreshed would come to work and do a
better job. At the time, normal factory
jobs still required long 10- to 15-hour
shifts with only a single day off on
Sundays. To give his workers more rest
time and to ensure that they came to
work more refreshed, he introduced the
5-day work week.
Workers would now make $6 per day, but
only work 40 hours a week and have 2
days off at the end. He literally
invented the weekend. And it worked.
Ford saw a noticeable increase in
productivity. And after this, almost all
industries adopted this working
schedule. And it's why we still have it
today.